 Elon Musk, welcome to Qatar Economic Forum. How are you? Thank you for having me. I'm fine. How are you? Very well. Thank you and very pleased to have you with us. You know, among those here in the audience in Doha are some you will know people who have backed you financially over the years. Since you last spoke here in 2022, a lot has changed in your life. You're not only running multiple companies. You were doing that then, but now you also have a role in government. So first of all, I hope you won't mind if from time to time I have to move you from one topic to another because we have a lot to cover in the time we have. That will be all right. Okay. Well, let's start then with exactly the fact that you now have this combination of being a CEO and having a role as a government advisor. Tell me about your week. How does it work? What's the split of your time? Well, I travel a lot. So I was in Silicon Valley yesterday morning. I was in LA yesterday evening. I'm in Austin right now. I'll be in DC tomorrow. I'll be there. I'll have to have a dinner with the president tomorrow night, I believe. And then a bunch of cabinet secretary meetings and then back to Silicon Valley on Thursday night. But I mean the balance of your time. Is it, well, clearly it's a lot, but is it still the case, as you said a while ago, that it's about one to two days a week on your government work? Yeah, that's correct. And what does that mean for your corporate life? Because if we start with Tesla, the company has suffered in recent months what you've called blowback. So what is your plan for turning that around the declining sales picture? And by what stage do you think you're going to be able to turn it around? Oh, it's already turned around. Give me some evidence for that. I've just been looking at the sales figures for Europe in April, which show very significant declines in the big markets. Europe is our weakest market. We're strong everywhere else. So sales are doing well at this point. We don't anticipate any meaningful sales shortfall. And the, you know, obviously the stock market recognizes that since we're now back over a trillion dollars in market cap. So clearly the market is aware of the situation. So it's already turned around. But sales still down compared to this time last year? In Europe. In Europe, okay. And that's true of all manufacturers. There's no exceptions. Does that mean that you're not going to be able to? Does that mean? Europe is quite weak. Okay. But you would acknowledge wouldn't you that what you are facing, okay, let's just take it as your what you are facing is a significant problem. This Tesla was an incredibly aspirational brand. People identified with it. They saw it at being at the forefront of the climate crisis. And now people are driving around with stickers in their cars saying, I bought this before we knew Elon was crazy. And there are also people who are buying it because Elon's crazy or however they may view it. So yes, we've lost some sales perhaps on the left, but we've gained them on the right. The sales numbers at this point are strong. And we've seen no problem with the mad. So what do you mean? I mean, you can just look at the stock price. If you want the best insight information, the stock market analysts have that. And stock wouldn't be trading near all time highs if it was not if things weren't in good shape. They're fine. Don't worry about it. I was citing sales figures rather than share price. Well, tell me then how committed you are to Tesla. Do you see yourself and are you committed to still being the chief executive of Tesla in five years time? Yes. No doubt about that at all. Well, no, I might die. Okay, short of that. Let me see if I'm dead. So does a slight amount. Does that mean that the value of your pay doesn't have any bearing on your decision? Well, that's not really a subject of discussion in this forum. I think obviously there should be a conversation for if there's a selling incredible is done that competition should match that something incredible was done. But I'm confident that whatever the whatever some activist posing as a judge in Delaware happens to do will not affect the future conversation. This is the judge who twice struck down the $56 billion pay package that was that was awarded to you. I think the value on the basis on the current value of stock options. Yeah, not a judge, not a judge. The activist who is cosplaying a judge in a Halloween costume. Okay, that's your characterization. I think the value on the current value of stock options, I think the actual justice according to the law on the current value of stock options. I think the value of that pay package stands at about $100 billion. Are you saying you are relaxed about the value of your future pay package, your decision to be committed to Tesla for the next five years as long as you are still with us on this planet is completely independent of pay? No. It's not independent. So pay is a relevant factor then to your commitment to Tesla. It's sufficient voting control such that I cannot be ousted by activists and investors is what matters to me. And I've said this publicly many times. But let's not have this whole thing be a discussion of my alleged pay. It's not a money thing. It's a reasonable control thing over the future of the company, especially for building millions, potentially billions of humanoid robots. I can't be sitting there and wanting to get tossed out by political reasons by activists that would be unacceptable. That's all that matters. Now let's move on. Okay, well, just one question. Well, one question before we move on to other companies, which is that I wonder if some of what you've has happened to Tesla in the last few months, did you take it personally? Yes. And did it make you regret any of or think twice about your political endeavors? Because it is, I did what needed to be done. The violent antibody reaction and I'm not someone who's ever committed violence. And yet, massive violence was committed against my companies. Massive violence was threatened against me. Who are these people? Why would they do that? How wrong can they be? They're on the wrong side of history. And that's an evil thing to do, to go and damage some innocent person's car, to threaten to kill me. What's wrong with these people? I've not harmed anyone. So something needs to be done about them. And a number of them are going to prison and they deserve it. Anymore will. You're referring to the attacks on Tesla showrooms. But I think, yeah, well, it's into showrooms and burning down cars is unacceptable. Those people go to prison and the people that funded them and organized them will also go to prison. Don't worry. We're coming for you. But wouldn't you acknowledge that some of the people who turned against Tesla in Europe were upset at your politics and very few of them would have been violent in any way. They just objected to what they saw you say or do politically. Well, it's certainly fine to object to political things, but it's not fine to resort to violence and hanging someone in effigy and death threats. That's obviously not okay. You know, that's absurd. That is in no way justifiable at all. In any way, shape or form. And some of the legacy media, none of us have sought to justify it, which is unconscionable. Shame on them. Let's talk about your other companies then and other business areas, SpaceX. I saw that you said in a speech at the West Point Military Academy recently that the future of warfare is AI and drones and obviously, defense is an increasingly booming sector with the state of the world at the moment. Do you see SpaceX moving into weaponized drones? You certainly ask interesting questions that are impossible to answer. SpaceX is a space launch leader. So, SpaceX doesn't do drones. SpaceX builds rockets, satellites, and internet terminals. So, SpaceX has a very dominant position in space launch. So, of the mass launch to orbit this year, SpaceX will probably do 90 percent. China will do the half of the remaining amount, so 5 percent. And the rest of the world, including the rest of the US, will do about 5 percent. So, SpaceX will do about 10 times as much as the rest of the world combined or 20 times as much as China, which is, and China is doing actually a very impressive job. The reason for this is that we are putting into orbit the largest satellite constellation the world has ever seen by far. So, I think at this point, about maybe approaching 80 percent of all active satellites in orbit are SpaceX. And they're providing high bandwidth level connectivity throughout the world. In fact, this connection is on the SpaceX connection. So, I think this is a very good thing because it means that we can provide low-cost high bandwidth internet to parts of the world if they don't have it or it's very expensive. And I think the single biggest thing you can do to lift people out of poverty and help them is giving them an internet connection. Because once you have the internet connection, you can learn anything for free on the internet. And you can also sell your goods and services to the global market. And once you have knowledge by the internet and the ability to engage in commerce, that this is going to greatly improve quality of life for people throughout the world and it has. And I'd just like to thank anyone in the audience who may have been helpful and, you know, with Starlink and getting it approved in the country. And I think it's doing a lot of good on the countries that have approved it, which is, I think at this point, 130 countries are very happy with it. I don't currently, it's SpaceX getting into the weapons business. That's certainly, it's not an aspiration. We're frequently asked to do weapons programs, but we have thus far declined. Do you envisage SpaceX or indeed Starlink as a separate entity publicly listing in the near future or at all? It's possible that Starlink may go public at some point in the future. And what would be the, what would be the timeframe? What kind of timeframe you consider? I mean, no rush. I mean, no rush to go public. The, the, you know, public is, I guess, a way to, you know, potentially make more money, but at the expense of a lot of public company overhead and inevitably a whole bunch of lawsuits, which are very annoying. So really something needs to be done about the shareholder, shareholder derivative lawsuits in the U S because it allows plaintiffs, law firms who don't represent the shareholders to pretend that they represent the shareholders by getting a puppet plaintiff with a few shares to initiate a massive lawsuit against the company. And the irony being that extreme irony that even if the class they report to represent were to vote that they don't want the lawsuit, the lawsuit would still continue. So how can it be a class action representing a class if the class were against it? And that's the bizarre situation we've got in the U S that needs into dire need of reform. Have you had, as anyone's running a public company, you've experienced this. It's an absurd situation that needs to change. Well, do you think Donald Trump might change it? You've certainly got his ear. I imagine that you've put this to him. Is this something you're trying to change before any Starlink IPO? Well, it would need a law to be passed. The trial being that you need 60 Senate votes and the Democrats will vote against it. The plaintiff's bar is, I believe, the second largest contributor to the Democratic Party. That's the issue. At the state level, this can be solved. And I should say Texas recently passed a law which at least the state level made the lawsuit much more reasonable because you have to get at least one in 33 shareholders to agree that they are part of a class of shareholders. 3%. This will really help with a fabulous lawsuit. Let's talk about AI, which is in so many of your businesses and in all our worlds in different ways. It's one of the big changes, the development of generative AI since you last spoke to this forum three years ago. You're in this space, of course, with GROC, which almost everyone will know. You co-founded Open AI and then left and you've obviously got a legal battle with Open AI and Sam Altman. I wonder if you could say something about the status of that because you were together in Saudi Arabia with the President last week with Sam Altman in the same place at the same time. Sam was in the neighborhood. Does that mean you are pushing ahead with the lawsuit against Open AI? Yes. I came up with the name Open AI as an open source and as a non-profit. I funded an open AI for the first roughly $50 million and it was intended to be a non-profit open source company. Now they're trying to change that for their own financial benefit into a for-profit company that is closed source. This would be like, let's say you funded a non-profit to help preserve the Amazon rainforest, but instead of doing that, they became a lumber company, trucked down the forest and sold the wood. You'd be like, wait a second, that's not what I funded. That's Open AI. They've made some changes to their corporate structure though, haven't they, since in recognition of what you've said. No, that's just what they told the media. Okay. They have partly walked back their plan to restructure the business. I guess that's made no difference to how you feel about it. So you determined to see them in court? Of course. Well, that's certainly going to be one to watch. I also wanted to ask you about AI and regulation, because when you were here last talking to John Mickelfway, you had some pretty strong words about the risk that AI poses, and you said that you really felt what the US was missing was a federal AI regulator, that something along the lines of the Food and Drug Administration or the Federal Aviation Administration, now you're clearly now in a zone where you're more on the cutting regulation side than wanting new regulators. So has your view changed on the need for an AI regulator? Well, it's not that I don't think there should be regulators. You'd think of regulators like referees on the field in sports. There should be some number of referees, but you shouldn't have so many referees that you can't kick the ball without hitting one. So in many, in most fields in the US, the regulatory burden has grown over time to the point where it's like having more referees than players on the field. So, and this is a natural consequence of an extended period of prosperity. It's very important to appreciate this. This is happening throughout history. When you have an extended period of prosperity with no existential war, there's no cleansing function for unnecessary laws and regulations. So what happens is that every year, more laws and more regulations are passed because, you know, legislators are going to legislate, regulators are going to regulate, and you will get the steady pile of more and more laws and regulations over time until everything is illegal. And let me give you an example of a truly absurd situation. Under the Biden Administration, SpaceX was sued for not hiring asylum seekers in the US. Now, the problem is it's actually illegal for SpaceX under ITAR, International Trafficking and Arms Regulations, to hire anyone who is not a permanent resident of the United States because the premise being that they will take advanced rocket technology and return to their home country if they're not a permanent resident. So we're simultaneously in a situation where it is illegal to hire asylum seekers and is also illegal to hire asylum seekers. And the Biden's Department of Justice chose to prosecute us despite both paths being illegal, down if you do, down if you don't. But my question was specifically about a regulator for AI, which you said three years ago was needed, and you said we need to be proactive on the regulation of AI rather than reactive. Have you changed your mind on that? No, of course not. What I'm saying is that there should be some referees on the field, a few referees, but you shouldn't have a field jam-packed with referees such that you cannot kick a ball in any direction without hitting one. So the fields that have been around for a long time, such as automotive, aerospace, the sort of food and drug industries, are over-regulated, but the new fields, like artificial intelligence, are under-regulated. In fact, there is no regulator at all. So there should be. Do you still think that? Yes, I'm simply saying, which I think is just basic common sense, that you want to have at least, you want to have a few referees in the field. You don't want to have an army of referees, but you want to have a few referees on any given field, in any given sport, or any given arena, industrial arena, to ensure help that public safety is taken care of. But you don't want to have, so there's a proper number of referees. Like I said, it's actually very easy to visualize this when compared to sports. If the whole field is packed with referees, that would look absurd. But if there were no referees at all, your games are going to be as good. Okay, so let's then talk about your new world, your role-advising government. You are in this unique and unprecedented position of having billions of dollars worth of contracts with the federal government yourself, mostly through SpaceX, and also now an insider's knowledge of it because of Doge. Can you see that there is a conflict of interest or a potential conflict of interest in broad terms, just through that very fact? I don't think so, actually. There have been many advisors throughout history in the US government and others who have had economic interests. And I am simply an advisor. I don't have formal power. And that's it. A president can choose to accept my advice or not. And that's how it goes. If there's a single contract that any of my companies have received that people think is somehow not awarded improperly, it would immediately be front-page news, to say the least. And if I didn't mention it, certainly my competitors would. So if you're not seeing that, then clearly it's not a conflict of interest. There's another way, though, to look at it, that for example, you have many competitors, whether it's companies like Boeing or companies who would like to do more of the kind of work you do for NASA, Blue Origin, Rocket Lab. And because Doge is in every federal government department, you or people who work for Doge, and you are the driving force behind it, have an insight into those companies' affairs and those companies' relationships with the federal government. Now, all we do is we review the organization to see if the organization has departments that are no longer relevant and are the contracts that are being awarded good value for money. In fact, frankly, the bar is not particularly high. Is there any value for money in a contract? And if there isn't, then we make recommendations to the secretary. The secretary can choose to take those actions or not take those actions. And that's it. And then any action that is as a function of Doge is posted to the Doge website and to the Doge.gov, or at Doge, handle on the X platform. So it's complete transparency. And I've not seen any case where, to the best of my knowledge, it's even been an accusation of conflict, because it is completely and utterly transparent. That's it. And what about the international dimension? Now, let's think about Starlink. Starlink is obviously a very, very good internet service. It's sought after all over the world. It's critical to the front line in Ukraine. It has also had more contracts coming its way. And there is some evidence that companies are allowing access to it because they want to be close to the Trump administration and send the right signal. So Bloomberg broke news today that the South African government is working around the rules on black ownership in order to allow Starlink in, and that is being done on the eve of the visit the President Ramaphosa is going to make to the White House. Do you recognize that as a conflict of interest? Now, of course not. First of all, you should be questioning why are there racist laws in South Africa? That's the first problem. That's what you should be attacking. It's improper for there to be racist laws in South Africa. The whole idea with what Nelson Mandela, who was a great man, proposed was that all racists should be on equal footing in South Africa. That's the right thing to do, not to replace one set of racist laws with another set of racist laws, which is utterly wrong and improper. So that's the deal that all racists should be treated equally, and there should be no preference given to one or the other. Whereas there are now 140 laws in South Africa that basically give strong preference to if you're black South African, and not otherwise. And so now I'm in this absurd situation where I was born in South Africa, but cannot get a license to operate in Starlink because I'm not black. Well, it looks like that's about to change. I just asked you a question. Please answer. Does that seem right to you? Well, those rules were designed to bring those rules were designed to bring about an era of more economic equality in South Africa. And it looks like the government has found a way around those rules for you. Ask your question. This is this is your interview. Everyone wants to hear from you. Ask your question. Yes or no. Not for me. Not for me to answer. I have got a question for you about about your government work there and the amount of savings. This is not for me to answer. Come on. Now you wouldn't be trying to dodge a question. You have to ask a question. I have a question. No, you answer mine. I think if you I'm sure you can have that conversation directly with the South African government if you want to. I want to ask you about the total. I can't believe it. That's not good. I want to ask you about the total amount. I want to ask you about the total amount that you're planning to save through Doge's work. Before the election, you said it was going to be at least two trillion. The number currently on doge.gov is $170 billion. That's a big change. What happened to the two trillion? What would you expect it to happen immediately? Well, is it going to happen because Doge's boasts a run until next July? Your question is absurd in its fundamental premise. Are you assuming that on day, you know, within a few months, this instant two trillion saved? No, I'm not all. I'm just asking, is that still your aim? Is it still your aim to get to two trillion? Have we not made good progress given the amount of time? That's exactly what I'm asking. So is it still your aim to go from $170 billion to two trillion? The ability of Doge to operate is a function of whether the government, and this includes the Congress, is willing to take our advice. We're not the dictators of the government. We are the advisors. And so we can advise, and the progress we've made thus far, I think, is incredible. Doge team has done incredible work, but the magnitude of the savings is proportionate to the support we get from Congress and from the executive branch of the government in general. So we're not the dictators. We are the advisors. But thus far, four advisors with the Doge team, to their credit, has made incredible progress. You've talked about $4 billion a day being saved, but that won't get, which is, and I think everyone can agree that combating waste and inefficiency in government is a very good thing. But if you add that up, it's not going to get to two trillion over the lifetime of Doge. I'm sorry? The four billion a day, if Doge is going to run till next July, is not going to get you to $2 trillion. But you still say it's your aim, so we'll take that as red. There's what Doge, I mean, I feel you're somewhat trapped in the NPC dialogue tree of a traditional journalist. So it's difficult when I'm conversing with someone who's trapped in the dialogue tree of a conventional journalist because it's like talking to a computer. So Doge is an advisory group. We are doing the best we can as an advisory group. The progress made thus far as an advisory group is excellent. I don't think any advisory group has done better in the history of advisory groups of the government. Now, we do not make the laws, nor do we control the judiciary, nor do we control the executive branch. We are simply advisers. In that context, we are doing very well. Beyond that, we cannot take action beyond that because we are not some sort of imperial dictator of the government. There are three branches of government that arch some degree opposed to that level of cost savings. But nonetheless, let's not criticize whether there's four trillion and instead look at the fact that 160 billion has been saved and more will be saved too. And as I said, I think everyone can agree that cutting waste and indeed fraud in any government and being responsible with tax-based money is a very good thing. So I can see that you're proud of that work. I do want to ask you about USAID and the comments that Bill Gates made the other day, which I know that you called him. Yeah, he's a good man. I know. You've said that already. I wanted... Sorry, more. Also, who does Bill Gates think he is to make comments about the welfare of children, given that he is... He frequented Jeffrey F. Stee? Okay, well, he's said he regrets those. And he's spent a lot of his own money on philanthropy around the world over the years. My question to you is, have you looked at the data to check if he might be right that the cuts to USAID might cost millions of lives? Yes. I'd like him to show us any evidence whatsoever that that is true. It's false. What we found with USAID cuts, and by the way, they have an open cut. The parts of USAID that were found to be even slightly useful were transferred to the State Department. So they've not been deleted. They've severely been transferred to the State Department. But many times over with USAID and other organizations, when they said, oh, well, this is going to help children or it's going to help some disease eradication or something like that. And then when we ask for any evidence whatsoever, I say, well, please connect us with this group of children so we can talk to them and understand more about their issue. We get nothing. Would they ever even try to prevent show... Come up with a show often, meaning like, it's sort of like, well, can we at least see a few kids? Where are they if they're in trouble? We'd like to talk to them and talk to their caregivers. And then we get something as a response because it's what we find is an enormous amount of fraud and graft. Okay. Let me put this example. Very little of it actually gets to the kids. If anything at all. Okay. Let me put this example to you because you grew up in South Africa. So you will know the impact of HIV AIDS well. And this is why I asked about the data. The US led on international efforts to combat HIV AIDS treatment prevention. And there's an initiative called PEPFAR, which is credited with saving 26 million lives in the last 20 years. It was part of the foreign aid freeze. Then there was a limited waiver. But services are disrupted. And UN Aid says, if permanently discontinued, there will be another 4 million AIDS related deaths by 2029. So if you look at that example, which is backed up by data in 2023, 630,000 people died of AIDS related illnesses, then perhaps Bill Gates's figures are not wrong. Millions of lives could be lost. First of all, the program, the AIDS medication program is continuing. So your fundamental premise is wrong. It is continuing. Now, do you have another example? Not in its entirety. Is that in its faults? Not in its entirety. The program, there's a limited waiver. And UN AIDS have said that not all of the services that were previously funded by USAID are continuing. So that's why I put that example to you. Okay, well, which ones aren't being funded? I'll fix it right now. Okay, well, actually, they're all on the UN AIDS website. So you'll be able to see them. But mostly they are to do with prevention. And for example, the rollout of a drug called Lena Kappavir, which was hailed as one of the biggest breakthroughs against AIDS for many years, which came out last year. So if you are, perhaps, I'm sure UN AIDS would be delighted if you're able to look at that again. Yes, but if in fact this is true, which I doubt it is, then we'll fix it. Okay, fine. So finally, your political influence. I wondered whether you have decided yet how much you're going to spend on the upcoming midterms. You spent a lot more money on the last U.S. election than you envisaged when you were speaking here three years ago. Are you going to continue to spend at that kind of level on future elections? I think in terms of political spending, I'm going to do a lot less in the future. And why is that? I think I've done enough. Is it because of blowback? Well, if I see a reason to political spending in the future, I will do it. I do not currently see a reason. What about political influence beyond the U.S.? How often do you speak to President Putin? I don't speak to President Putin. You've never spoken to President Putin? I was on a video call with him once about five years ago. That's the only thing I speak to President Putin. I get it. Because I've heard you speak about it. For example, in your West Point speech, you said, oh, I challenged President Putin to was it an arm wrestle? And I know the Wall Street Journal is reported your reported conversations. If you're saying they haven't happened other than once, I'll take that as read. Is there a worse publication on the face of the earth than the Wall Street Journal? I wouldn't use that to line up my cage for power croppings. That newspaper is the worst newspaper in the world. If there's one newspaper that should be pro-capitalist, it's the one with Wall Street in the name. But it isn't. So I have the very lowest opinion of the Wall Street Journal. Absolutely not. So you clearly believe the tribe that you've written, that you've read in those papers. I read very widely, and I'm putting these questions to you so that you have an opportunity to respond to them, which you are, and for which we're all grateful to hear your responses. Okay, we are out of time. You mentioned re-challenging. I did so on the X platform. I challenged Vladimir Putin to single combat. Over the... I didn't talk to him. That was a post on the X platform. Great. That's why I asked you, and you've clarified and explained. Thank you. That's why I was asking whether you have had reported conversations, and you've said you have it other than a video call. Okay. Typical legacy media lies. Okay, listen, I actually thought I might give Grock the last word, because when I asked Grock what your hardest challenge is, it said the strain of managing multiple high-stake ventures amid financial regulatory and public relations crises. And I wondered whether you recognized that characterization and whether you do think that this is a pivotal year in your life. Well, every year has been somewhat pivotal, and this one's no different. So, I mean, in terms of interesting things that probably are accomplished this year, the getting Starship to be fully reusable so that we catch both the booster and the ship, which will be the first fully reusable orbital rocket ever in history, which would be a profound breakthrough, the essential breakthrough necessarily to make life multi-planetary and ultimately become a space-varying civilization. We've got Neuralink, which has now helped five patients restore capability using the telepathy implant, where they're able to control the computer simply by thinking. We'll be doing our first patient to restore site with our blind site implant, which is the end of the year early next. In fact, that first patient might be in UAE, since we have a relationship with UAE and the Cleveland Clinic there. I think we're starting on the AI front. We are close to what you might call AGI, or Digital Superintelligence. I think we'll see, we are seeing an explosion in Digital Superintelligence here. Then we've got to Tesla, what we'll be launching, Unsuvised Autonomy, basically self-driving cars with no one in them in Austin next month. It's a big year for sure. Many other things in the works too. Technology is first and foremost. Elon Musk, thank you very much for joining us here at Qatar Economic Forum. Thank you.